Hello everyone and welcome to part four of the bootstrap section of the course and this section of the
course we'll discuss that traps grid system the grid system for bootstrap is one of its most fundamental
features so far mostly seen just convenient tools that bootstrap provides through class calls and those
are things such as calling those button classes in order to make sure they're shaped.
Well we're calling classes on form inputs to make sure the spacing is correct that everything looks
nice but the grid system goes much further than that.
The grid system provides the core mechanism by which using bootstrap allows Web sites to look good across
multiple devices and multiple screen sizes.
And that's really one of the core purposes of bootstrap so that it looks good not just on your desktop
and on your laptop your tablet your phone et cetera.
Let's get sort of an explanation of the bootstrap grid system.
So our fundamental question is what happens when we look at our Web site on different screen sizes whether
it's a desktop or laptop a tablet or a phone.
How do we reorganize our Web site so that it looks good across all of these devices.
Well the bootstrap grid system has this fundamental idea will split the entire screen into 12 available
columns that you can see here that are highlighted.
You have these 12 basic available columns then you can use any combination of numbers that will eventually
add up to 12 columns.
So on that second row you see we have six by two columns on that second example.
Example Number two we see four by three.
Example Number three is the three by four.
And then we see 2 by 6 so we can split up those two columns in any way we want and we can split them
up unevenly so we could say eight on one side and four on the other or vice versa.
The grid system call will make use of the class equal to.
So we're going to see we're actually coding examples.
This class is equal to Roekel and inside of a row class.
We then have the following format and the format.
The general format for a grid system is call dash.
The screen size dashed a number of columns and the screen size dictates what screen size you're referring
to.
And there's a few basic screen sizes and there's actually a little bit of a difference in Bitstrips
three and four in this aspect.
But you can think of the screen sizes as basically things such as large medium small extra small.
And now it's true for there's extra large but we'll get into that in just a second.
And then the third argument is number of columns how many columns do you want to take up at this particular
screen size.
So for example we have a call like this.
CIOL dash M.D dash 6 and that basically says when the screen size of a medium screen size and there's
actual pixel amounts to quantitatively define what a medium screen size is I want this certain thing
whatever's in this container to take up six columns or half of the available screen.
All right.
So we can define how the column should be shown when the screen gets resize and those are basically
known as break points.
So let's is sort of some examples where you have a browser open will be resizing or browser to see how
the columns change.
As you make the browser bigger or smaller kind of to emulate different device sizes.
And we also see how we can account for that with our code.
So I'm going to jump to my editor now.
OK so here I am at my editor and heavenwards HTML document open and it's actually already linked to
bootstraps DSS file online.
First thing I want to do is actually add in some style calls so I can see the grid system and columns
clearly.
So one way that we would normally do this is linctus HVM document to a CSSA file but I can actually
basically put a CSSA file inside as a team L by doing a style tag call and you don't have to worry about
this media screen.
We can just take that out and what we're going to do is basically just write CSSA here I'm going to
make a class called bácsi so I'll have that bácsi there and I'm going to give anything in that class
a background color of a light blue.
So that's a hex code I found here.
B 3 d d f f.
So it's kind of a light blue color and then I want to give it a border of let's say a two pixel solid
black border.
All right.
So we'll see how that comes into play in just a little bit.
But that's basically going to be for visualization purposes doesn't have much to do if the actual grid
system of bootstrap.
So let's show you an example of using this bootstrap system for the grids Sugoi to make a container
class and then I'm going to call a div that has the class row.
And we're going to need that class row to actually do anything inside of a grid system.
And then what I will do here is that in some divs inside of this.
So have this class container class row.
And then here I'm going to type C well.
Large it's too large for the class that goes if this is going to be seal oil Elgie dash 4 and this is
saying when the screen is a large screen and so that certain amount of pixels I want this whatever this
is COSC large for to take up four of those 12 columns that are available to me.
So I'm going to copy and paste this two more times because I have four plus four is a plus for us 12.
So let's refresh this.
And I can see now IFCO enl. for Siona large for so a large For it's actually see this a little better.
What I'm going to do is tack on this bácsi class.
They just made like this.
And so now we can see that we can kind of tack on these classes and you actually saw that a lot with
the nav bar lectures that there was these classes kind of tacked on.
Well let's refresh this.
And I can clearly see where the columns are.
So I have four of the 12 columns taken up here for the 12 columns taken up here for the 12 here and
this happens at a large screen.
But what happens is I begin to expand the screen.
Well nothing happens even at like an extra large size because this basically stands for for large and
above.
But what happens if I start shrinking this to below a large screen size.
What happens if I hit a medium screen size boom.
So look what happened here.
Suddenly it all collapses and they're all just taking up all 12 columns that are all stacked on top
of each other now.
And that's something we're going to discover as we go along how we can actually fix this problem.
Well it's not really a problem but how we can edit this to do whatever we want.
Maybe we still wanted to have across the board.
These three together even a smaller screen size.
Well how would I do that.
And let's explore through some more examples.
So here we have this container class and let's change this.
So we actually take up on medium size screens.
Well let's do this sorry let's copy and paste this whole thing.
Now let's add in something new.
Right below this is where we can see him both on top of each other.
So I'm going to delete this and I'm going to say instead of large all type M.D for medium and this will
now say M.D.
Now let's make these guys six.
So there's two of them.
We'll call this method six for medium meds six remedium you will save this let's expand this browser
refresh the page and now I see my original three columns here.
So large four large four large four and then two more column calls medium six medium six.
So each of these is taking up six units of those columns.
And now as I begin to shrink this I can see the collapse once I reach what's known as a medium screen
size.
The large ones have already collapsed.
However the medium ones are still hanging on to their call there and it's only until I reach a small
screen size that even the mediums now will collapse.
So let's continue on this by putting in something smaller to be our class call of the grid system.
So I will copy and paste these guys.
And now it's put in something like extra small which is X s
and I'm going to say extra small here when insects are small there save that.
And we're going to expand this again refresh.
And now I can see I have large for large for those medium columns an extra small 6 inch and let's see
what happens as I begin to reach those break points.
So here's the break point about to happen for medium.
And we can see that medium has not been affected yet.
Here's the break point for small about to be reached and we can see the extra small hasn't been affected
yet.
So as it keeps shrinking down we can see that extra small is still going to hang on him.
In fact it's going to hang on all the way.
So as I make this tiny This is basically the size of a cell phone string so small as my computer lets
me go extra small has still contain this two column formation using six of those 12 on this side and
six of those 12 on this side.
All right.
So now the question arises Well what do I do to account for different screen sizes.
It seems like right now I can only account for one screen size.
At the very end.
Well you can actually just tack on classes together to make up for that so let me show you what I mean
by that.
You can just add in size classes to account for behavior at different sizes.
So what I will do now is the following going to wups let's just delete one of these
and let's have it be real world dash LG dash 3
now we'll call this one.
And then instead of just being three units on a large screen I'm going to have it be six units when
it reaches a small screen and I'm going to copy and paste this in I'm going to make four of these.
So we'll say one two three.
Four and let's grab all these and comment them out.
So we can just focus on what's happening with this guy.
And this is example number four in the notes.
So expand this refresh and here it can save one to three and four.
And if we look back amazed him.
I said whenever the screen is large.
Each of these things should take up 3 units which makes sense to each taking up three because three
times four is twelve here.
And then once I reach small or smaller then they'll each take up six.
So what actually happens here.
Well Sister each can I have to take up six once they reached small then it gets split.
So now one and two are taking up six and then three and four taking up six.
And then as I continue going once I reach extra small the each take up one.
So it only gets defined up to the small screen size you do.
And if you keep breaking past that it's going to line them all up together to take up all 12.
So at this point in the lecture what I would encourage you to do is really play around with these calls
here and you can reference that documentation either on the new bootstrap for where there's basically
an extra large screen size which you may or may not be able to realize the pinning on how big your screen
it or you can just go to get bootstrapped that comp slash example slash Griots actually see examples
of this.
So here we can actually see some great examples.
We have the three equal columns on medium.
So this is about desktop to large desktops you can see three unequal columns of three six and three
or two columns eight in a four.
And here are just a bunch of examples that you can do as you explore.
So what I would encourage you to do is come to this link get bootstrapped dot com slash example slash
grid and actually play of these and see that you really understand how you can define a call as you
resize your screen.
OK so now that we've done that you may be wondering well prophy that is pretty restrictive for the phone
to divide further beyond 12 units and that's actually really easy.
All you have to do is Nest those rose calls.
So let's comment this out.
And actually do that so I'll make a new device.
It's going to be Arrau and then I'm going to say div will say Class C O L dash LG 6 and we'll tack on
the bácsi class there
and then inside of this actually I'm going to make another div called class row.
So here right now I'm only taking up half of the screen on large screens and then inside of this I create
another class called row so I'm going to say class this will be call LG 6 bácsi and this is where I'll
actually put in some content.
And we'll call this next one.
And let's make another one just like it's going to copy this and paste it and let's call it ness too.
And then outside of this row class right here.
So inside of this first one outside of this one I'm going to do is the following.
And I think I misspoke for a second.
So outside of all of this excuse me.
So inside of this first initial row class but outside of all this I'm going to call a div and it's going
to have the class C well dash Elgie dash 6 bácsi And let's give it a name like top level.
So before we actually see what this looks like let's explain what's actually going on here.
So this is in order to get more than just 12 units we can divide this further.
So in calling the initial div classical Tarot.
And that tells bootstrap OK we're going to be dealing with the grid system here.
Then I call a class that says C O L.
LG dash 6.
Bácsi inside of that we've been usually just putting in our street content.
In our case it's been text but a lot of times can be images links whatever you want to put in there.
But inside of that instead of putting the content straight away I add in another class equal to row
which basically means I'm taking up everything inside this LG dash 6 and putting in another 12 columns
in there to play it with and then I'm splitting that in half.
So there's going to be my next one ness too.
And then there's my top level.
So think about what you expect this to look like before you actually view it in your browser.
OK so hopefully you thought about it.
Let's take this make sure we save it expand our browser refresh.
And here is what we see.
We see nest 1 and nest 2 on the left hand side and then we see top level over on the right hand side.
So what we ended up doing was we successfully nested these two in order to split them up and then we
have our top level taking up the rest of it.
And that's how you can go further than just these 12 units you can split up these units again and again
using just nested classical to RHO calls.
OK.
So as a quick review of what we've been discussing remember the entire idea behind bootstrap is that
this entire screen is split up into those 12 equal columns and then you can decide based off a screen
size what you want to actually take up out of those 12 columns.
So maybe when the screen is large if we look back at this example let me uncomment it will comment this
one out and uncomment this one.
So this one's probably the best example of how we actually used a grid system.
So at a large grid size I would say use three here.
But when it reaches small used six on each of them and you can change this to whatever you want.
So again the basic idea behind grid systems and bootstrap is you define how many of those 12 columns
you want to use that certain screen sizes.
And that's basically going to account for the break point.
All right.
If you have any questions on this make sure you actually visit the documentation especially this layout
page on the Butera for documentation.
There's a lot more to it than what we've covered.
There's like auto layout columns of equal with and there's a lot more you can do there.
We won't be messing around with the grid system too often when we're building our actual web sites which
is why we're not going to go into all of this.
But it is all there for you.
The documentation is pretty clear on what you can and can't do.
And it's a really great resource for you.
And also check out get bootstrap that complex example slushed grid.
If you just want ideas for what you can actually do with it.
OK thanks everyone.
Again feel free to post the Kewney forums if you have any questions.
But other than that I will see you at the next lecture.
We're going to have a quick project to kind of wrap up everything we've been talking about bootstrap
with thanks and I'll see you there.